so um so this time I'll be talking about
using and evaluating sentence
representations so this is this class is
a little bit different from the others
it's kind of a survey class where I'm
going to talk about a bunch of different
things um I have worked on some of these
areas before but very few as my
specialty so if it is your specialty as
always feel free to make comments or
about interesting things that I might be
missing um so first sentence
representations we talked a lot about
different ways of turning like a
sentence into a vector or something like
that
including CN NS in RN ents and stuff but
just to kind of summarize there's
basically two ways that we can express a
sentence or represent the sentence and
one is by turning that sentence into a
sequence into a single vector so we take
this sentence and convert it into a
single fixed length vector regardless of
the length of the sentence etc or we can
do something like convert it into a
sequence of vectors so if we have four
words in the sentence maybe we'll
convert it into four vectors or we might
convert it into even more even more
vectors so there's a bunch of different
ways to do this um so when we get to
this point there's kind of an obligatory
quote that I have to post here um this
is a famous quote by Ray Mooney who's a
semantics parsing or a semantics
researcher and right when neural network
models were coming out he gave a
presentation at the the representation
learning for NLP workshop and I was
lucky enough to be there at the time and
basically the quote is you can't cram
the meaning of a whole beep sentence
into a single beeping vector uh-huh and
basically what he was trying to say here
was you know these methods for learning
sentence representations and then
assuming they capture all the semantics
for a sentence are are ridiculous and
don't make much sense and I I think now
there's some evidence that he was wrong
but there's a lot more evidence that he
was right so if he was wrong
the first method will be sufficient if
he was right then we need something like
the second method to generate sequences
of vectors and yes I'm talking about all
the sentence representations I will
discuss with which one this is so
there's a lot of different ways to use
or evaluate sentence representations
these are not all of them but these are
the ones that kind of use sentence
representations as a more or less an end
product and then do something very
straightforward with them as opposed to
something like machine translation or
dialogue response generation which I'll
talk about later where you actually have
a lot of downstream tasks that come
after the sentence representation but
the ones I'm going to talk about this
time our sequence classification
paraphrase identification semantic
similarity entailment and retrieval so
the goal for today as I said at the very
beginning this is kind of a survey where
I'm going to talk about a broad variety
of things and I'm going to introduce the
various tasks I'm also going to
introduce their evaluation metrics so
how we normally how we normally evaluate
them I'm also going to introduce data
sets and I'm going to introduce about
how people went about went about
creating these data sets and I think
this is very useful if you want to do
something new yourself and want to
create a kind of standard data set that
other people will use and this in itself
is a very good contribution it's a
contribution that can be very useful for
lots of researchers it's a contribution
you can become famous for if that's your
thing so so I think that's an important
thing to talk about too and finally I'll
introduce methods of course there's you
know hundreds and hundreds of methods
and I can't introduce all of them so
I'll just talk about a few examples that
are either interesting or examples that
kind of our achieving state-of-the-art
results of these tasks here so you can
kind of reference
so it any question super okay so the
first one I've actually already talked
about this perhaps far too much so I'm
not going to talk about it in in detail
but basically sentence classification is
classifying a sentence according to
various traits the example I have given
is sentiment analysis where we turn
these into you know very bad or very
good we can also do subjectivity
objectivity we can do topic of the
sentence etc so the task itself
basically taken a sentence I'll put a
label so most of the methods that we use
for these are very similar so the
overall model basically when we're doing
it within a neural network framework we
look up something for each of the words
in the sentence we throw it into some
complicated function to extract
combination features I've talked about a
bunch of models it's very very common to
use some variety of convolutional neural
network now to do this then we use this
to calculate scores and you have to
calculate probabilities so basically all
of the all of the talk that I've done up
until now has talked about these models
there's a bunch of different a bunch of
different tasks that you can do this on
many of the tests were cited in the
reading material that I talked about on
skip flop vectors or the reading
material for this class I'd skip thought
vectors there are also a bunch of other
tasks but one common one that a lot of
people use is this Stanford sentiment
treebank
um the reason why I cited this is it's a
little bit more interesting than the
other ones where you just have a
sentence and a label this one's kind of
interesting because they actually
collected all annotations for each of
the constituents in this in this data
here so you can see that not only for
the very top label which is sentiment
for the whole
but you also have labels for the other
ones so you can see stuff like what
Empire lacks in depth and you can see
this part is negative because it's
saying it lacks in depth which is a bad
thing about a movie it makes up for it
in heart and you can see that because
there's this kind of qualifying
statement the overall thing comes out as
positive so this is a very interesting
way of making data that's a little bit
beyond your normal sentence
classification thing it also happens to
be a standard data set just for sentence
classification in general so it's still
worth mentioning in its own right I'm
not going to cover models because
everything I've talked about up until
now has been CNN models aren't in models
and all of these are used are used for
these desks I guess CNN models
particularly CNN models are quite common
here so the next task that I'm going to
talk about is paraphrase identification
and this one I'm going to talk about a
little bit more so basically the idea of
this is we want to identify whether a
and B mean the same thing so a and B
meaning the same thing this is kind of
actually a difficult concept so if you
look at these two things these are from
a paraphrase database if you look at
these do you think these mean the same
thing
yeah more or less I'd say so the answer
with regards to this paraphrase database
which I'm going to talk about in a
little bit is yes they do you can see
though it does have a little bit more
information W wheels longtime confidants
which was not included in the first one
so it's not exactly it's not exactly the
same information but it's close enough
that they judge this is correct
so they actually discussed this this is
from the Dolan and bracket paper on the
Microsoft paraphrase corpus I mean they
discussed this in detail there okay so
now I'll talk about this a little bit
and um this is kind of an interesting
example of how how they created data so
one way they did this was or the way
they did this was basically they crawled
this large news corpus from all the news
that Microsoft had on the web at that
time something like a million articles
they identified sentences that were
similar automatically using heuristics
or a classifier so they basically
trained in SVM based classifier to
extract data and then they also had some
heuristics about word overlap and stuff
like that um then they had Raiders go in
and determine whether they were actually
in fact similar 67 67 percent of them
were so the 67 percent are positive
examples 33 percent are negative
examples and then the corpus that they
extracted is high quality but it's small
it's 5,800 sentences so from there
1 million articles they the expected
these sentences and they ended up with
5,800 actually there's one additional
restriction that I forgot to put on here
which is that they had to identify the
copyright holder and get permission from
them or something like that so so that
was an additional restriction that
reduced the amount that quite a bit but
anyway the reason why I'm talking about
this also is because I do want people to
think about
the data that they got you know how the
data was created and that kind of puts
your models in context as well so this
is in contrast to other corpora so there
are other interesting corpora based on
translation or image captioning that you
can find I didn't actually list all them
here but you can find them online and
one other way to create paraphrase data
is to take a sentence in one language
and then ask people to translate it into
another language and then you'll get
these translational paraphrases and this
is a very good way of extracting for
example paraphrasing rolls automatically
another one is image captioning so you
take an image and you ask 10 people to
describe it it's a very similar idea is
it's a translation but that's another
way to get data but these ones are
naturally occurring in news for example
and they can extract things that way um
so there's a bunch of different models
for paraphrase detection so this is kind
of where the various varieties of
sentence representation come in so um
one way to do so is to calculate a
vector representation so you get then
you feed the representation into a
classifier and it decides yes or no so
this is the you can cram the meaning of
this entire sentence into a single
vector approach and there's a variety of
models that try to do this and the
perhaps one of the more interesting
varieties of models and one of the more
widely used four varieties of models and
this is skip thought vectors that people
heard of these yeah to some extent okay
so this is basically the sentence level
version of the of the word Tyvek except
that it's not really the sentence level
version of word Tyvek it's neither the
skip gram model nor the SIBO model
what it is like is it's kind of like a
positional version of the SIBO model
where you take in a sentence you read it
in and then you try to predict the
sentence before with one kind of decoder
and then you try to predict the sentence
after with another decoder um and this
is a variety of the encoder decoder
architecture that I'll talk about before
but the interesting thing about this is
this is entirely unsupervised training
so all you need to do is you need to
have a document where you know the order
of the sentences in the document and
then you can calculate based on this and
that gives you relatively good
relatively good vectors there um and
then you can use the resulting vector as
a sentence representation and then just
put it into a classifier and try to
decide whether it is whether it is a
paraphrase or not and the way they did
this so this is a this is a pretty good
way of doing this I think what they did
was they took the absolute value of the
difference of the two so if you have
exactly the same sentence of course the
absolute value of the difference will be
zero then they also took the component
wise multiplication and then they they
just use it would logistic regression
over this so the idea behind this here
is basically that certain elements if
they're very similar will be very
indicative that things are paraphrase
and other elements if they're not very
similar even if they're not very similar
will not be very indicative are there
any questions
um so would it be wiser to normalize the
second term so one thing I should
mention is that these are component-wise
both of these so one is the
component-wise difference one is the
component wise multiplication so then
they're just feeding that this into a
regresar so there's no youyou probably
don't need to normalize okay yeah you
could also do the dot product or the
cosine similarity which is the okay um
so I will move on to the next one so
this is the you cannot cram the sent the
meaning of an entire sentence into a
single vector method so these methods
actually calculate a multiple vector
representation and combine them together
to make a decision so sorry actually my
my example here is not a very good
example because these are exactly the
same sentence so it's kind of a trivial
a trivial paraphrase detection problem
here but imagine that those were
different sentences and then you would
calculate the vector representations and
need to decide yes or no um
and I actually talked about this last
time but basically the the way the
common way to do this there's a quite a
few different methods that were that
were proposed to do this and they all
kind of have the idea of having one kind
of a sentence based representation and
then doing some sort of pooling to get a
representation in the middle um usually
it's kind of a dynamic pooling operation
where you where you take things of two
different links links and turn them into
a fixed-length representation um this
particular one had multiple levels of
like convolution and other things there
were there's also earlier work by
Richard sojer at all and others that
used a single level using a trees
shirt method so but this is another kind
of common way of doing paraphrase
detection in terms of which one works
better this one tends to work better the
reason why it tends to work better is
let's say you have two very very similar
sentences what you can do is you can
kind of see that because the similar
sentences have tend to have similar
structure you can see that the the area
down the diagonal basically consists of
very very similar values and if you see
a pattern like this basically you can
almost look at the image of the of the
similarity vectors between these and it
becomes an image recognition problem
where you know a human could look at the
thing and tell whether it's a paraphrase
or not so of course a machine you know
which is now exceeded human performance
and image recognition maybe or maybe not
I can do this as well
[Music]
then as I promised I will also talk
about kind of state of the art methods
so very very interestingly actually the
state of the art method for this
paraphrasing corpus which has been
around for two thousand five is not a
neural network based method it's a
matrix decomposition based method so
what they did was they basically they
created a big word context matrix and
they waited each of the they waited each
of the word context weights based on
their discriminant how discriminative
they were for the paraphrasing task so
this thing on the upper right is
basically a matrix sorry a measure of
how discriminative the words are so
words like fear or noir or but or not
are relatively discriminative and then
they did this matrix decomposition to
lower the dimensionality and then made
predictions based on that importantly
they also
added features regarding surface match
so that's to take advantage of something
like this but these were not neural
network based features they were just
text match based features like the blue
score or something like that um so for
those of you in this neural networks for
NLP class you can take this as a
challenge since 2013 nobody has been
able to come along with the neural
network and beat this approach so if
you're interested in paraphrase
identification
now's your now's your chance to come up
with a method to do this go ahead um so
know this one used additional additional
data but so did a lot of the other ones
like the skip thought vectors paper
which is a neural network based method
also used a big book corpus so I think
generally for unsupervised training it's
assumed that it's okay if you if you do
unsupervised training on some other data
yeah okay so are there any other
questions about paraphrasing that's
about it oh okay so it was just the
number of by Graham of you know Graham
set matched the number of by Graham set
match the the blue score between the
paraphrase and the non paraphrase and
other things like that so I think this
this method isn't competitive without
these surface features but their surface
features are very powerful in before
this method I think the the best method
was one that just took a bunch of
evaluation metrics that were designed
for evaluating machine translation
combine them all together then trained a
classifier that use those so this is
kind of a expansion on that without
using all of them okay so I'll move on
to the next one so this is a semantic
similarity so semantic similarity
basically the idea is do two sentences
mean something similar so I talked about
this in the word embeddings uh
heart as well but basically this is
where you take a subjective evaluation
about two sentences being similar or not
so a man is jumping into an empty pool
and there is no biker jumping in the air
these are judged as very not similar
they're not very similar and a person in
the black jacket is doing tricks on a
motorbike a man in a black jacket is
doing tricks on a motorbike those are
judged to be very very similar so what
we would like to do is or so as a task
this is like paraphrase identification
but with shades of grey so basically we
are trying to you know regress to this
relatedness score instead of making it
yes/no decision in an example of this is
the sec data set if people heard of this
before you know some people not too many
but basically this is um this data set
had a so actually to be honest I spent a
lot of time preparing for this class
because I have not actually worked on
beasts myself and actually the data
preparation details are something
I knew this data set but I didn't know
the details and it's actually quite
important when you look at papers that
evaluate on these things but um this has
a very unique procedure to create
sentences so they started with a short
Flickr video description sentences so
these are sentences Flickr or video
description sentences so these are
sentences that describe a video or
sentences that describe a picture so
this is very a very popular way of
getting short descriptive sentences now
then they they normalize the sentences
so they do basically eleven types of
transformations that try to change the
sentence into something similar but that
still means the same thing so they do
things like switch the passive and
active they do things like replacing
with synonyms then they also create
opposites they insert negation they
invert determiners so on man becomes no
man
then replace words with antonyms so man
becomes a woman I don't know if that's
in the antonym or not but you know
something different then they also
scramble words in a way that doesn't
preserve the meaning so that would be a
man is jumping on a bike versus a bike
is jumping on a man or the man that
jumped on the bike flew or something
like that and then finally they asked
humans to measure the semantic
relatedness on a one to five Likert
scale of completely unrelated versus
very completely unrelated very related
so this is this is a commonly used data
set it's kind of interesting because
there's lots of lexical overlap but the
you know you have to look at the
structure and opposites etcetera kind of
difficult things to find the differences
between and then for the evaluation
procedure it's simple you input Q
sentences into the model and calculate
this so that then you measure the
correlation of the machine score with
the human scores so then you can use
Pearson's or whatever your favorite
correlation measure is um so um here's a
model example I looked this up I believe
this has gotten the best results on the
tasks that I've seen I might be missing
some of the more recent stuff but this
is a Siamese LS TM architectures so
basically what what a Siamese
architecture means in the framework of
neural networks is you use the same
thing on the input and output side so we
have an LS TM that's used to process
both the input in the output then we
have some sort of similarity measure
which is then calibrated between 0 and 1
and then this is used to basically
regress on the the similarity measure um
here the they used a kind of interesting
way of measuring similarity which is
basically the l1 norm of the distance
between the between the embeddings which
is then exponentiated so if the distance
zero then you get one and if the
distance is higher you get zero
basically and they train this so this is
incredibly simple it's way simpler than
all the other models here yet they get
very good results um my conclusion about
this is that probably they engineered
their model very well I'm not sure
whether the the core contribution is
what made this work very well I'd be
very interested in asking the authors
and I may do so after this but they all
they have lots of kind of engineering
tricks that seem to make this should be
that should help
like pre-training word embedding
pre-training pre-trained word embeddings
etc and this at the moment seems to be
best reported or very good accuracy so
in this task you um so I guess the
conclusion here is that nifty cool
architectures are important but
engineering if you really want to get
the best results are important so that
that's another takeaway is um any
questions here
um so the question is do they dis do
they discriminate between ones that are
syntactically valid but um so that is
not the task that I'm talking about here
the that's an interesting question I'm
not sure if I can think of any
particular task that tackles that on
other than language modeling so language
modeling you get that you kind of get
that for free because if it can't this
discriminate between semantically
incorrect and semantically you know
likely sentences it will lose perplexity
but I don't know does anyone know of a
data set that tests that or something
yeah I don't I don't know of any myself
oh so um so the question was how do they
determine whether the resulting sentence
was still valid um the the answer is
that they did all of these steps
manually so this is all entirely manual
um it'd be I've seen a couple papers
recently I don't have the references
right now where they actually do try to
do things like swap in words like for
machine translation for example augment
your data by swapping in words into
particular positions that might be that
might be correct or that might be
incorrect those ones you need to worry
about more but in this case it was all
manuals okay
any other questions um if not I will I
will move on to another another one
textural entailment so there's this this
textural entailment task so the textural
entailment task is basically you want to
determine whether it is the case if a is
true then B is true so this is very
useful for things like question
answering it can be a it can be kind of
an element of a question answering
system where basically you're given a
text and you want to decide whether a
question a multiple-choice question is
correct or not so if you wanted to build
a system that took all your quizzes in
this class for you one way you can do
that is you could basically have a thing
that read the entire text that I asked
you to read and then do then answer a B
C or D and the quiz and that would be a
textual entailment question where it
would be able to say no to all of the
wrong answers and yes to the correct
answer and I know your second question
is can I use that system to answer all
my quizzes for me and the answer is yes
if you can make one feel free to use it
on the quiz just tell me first so anyway
this is um this is in contrast to
paraphrasing um so paraphrasing is us
often considered mutual entailment where
both of the sentences have to entail
each other this is a little bit too
strong of a requirement though so like
the Microsoft paraphrase corpus they
explicitly say that this is too strong
we can't find any paraphrases that
actually satisfy this requirement so we
need to loosen it a little um the
opposite of entailment is contradiction
so if a is true then B is not true
the woman bought a sandwich for lunch so
the woman did not buy a sandwich you
know it at first glance it might seem
that these are just you know these cover
all the sentences but if you know your
logic well enough which I assume most
people in this room do you'll realize
that there's also a large number of
sentences that don't that don't do
either of these so they're not mutually
exclusive nor are they entailing
so the woman bought a sandwich for lunch
the woman bought a sandwich for dinner
it might be unlikely but you know it's
it's quite possible that somebody would
be sandwiches two times a day so so this
is neutral
okay so a deetle example for this this
is a somewhat I guess a somewhat
well-known example this is the Stanford
natural language in for this dataset
this is also created from Flickr
captions so this is what everybody likes
to do that nowadays because you get
these short relatively easy to process
sentences that are still interesting
then they crowdsource the creation of
one entailed neutral and contradicted
caption for each caption so they
basically had easy to understand wording
that explained what entailment was what
contradiction was and and what neutral
was then they verified the captions with
five human judgments and 89% of the
verification agreed between the
annotator and the gold label so it's a
relatively high quality and most
importantly it's 500,000 sentences so if
you have five hundred thousand sentences
and you can start to train a model that
actually captures all the interesting
stuff here also relatively recently
there was an expansion to multiple
genres Multi Noi which was also released
so this is kind of the successor to the
Stanford Noi and it's much more
interesting because it covers a bunch of
different spoken in written written okay
so this is a paper I found on this
recently this is a more kind of it's a
model that was
basically tailored to this task but you
could also probably use it for other for
other tasks but basically what it does
is it has this kind of attention based
model I'll talk more about attention in
in two classes but they basically take
in each vector in one of the sentences
and combine it with all the vectors in
the other sentence to to create a
representation for that particular word
and then they run a biology M over these
extract the last states of this Alice
tiem and then put all of these into a
soft bag so this is trying significantly
harder than than some of the other
models said I talked about before but
this this seems to work pretty well and
then there are others but in ensembl of
these models currently has the best
results on the or some of the best
results on the website here if you can
also one of the nice things about this
is this website has a west of all the
models along with their accuracy so you
can go in and look and see the various
architectures that people have used for
this problem so an interesting paper
that just came out at iam NLP this is in
contrast to the to the skip thought
vector paper so if you remember the skip
thought vector paper what it was doing
basically was it was predicting contexts
so it was taking in a sentence and
predicting the the sentences that
appeared around it in the discourse so
these can be considered unsupervised
training so the good thing about
unsupervised training is you can get
millions and millions of sentences right
you can download a corpus of all the
books ever written all the Wikipedia
documents etc and you can get basically
in unlimited not unlimited but you know
very large amount of training data
especially for a popular language like
English um and then the simple question
about this paper that this paper posed
is can supervised training for tests
such as inference do a better job at
learning generalizable embeddings and
there's two hypotheses that we can make
here so basically the inference
is more difficult it's it's nuanced and
it requires capturing more more
difficult linguistic phenomena so this
would kind of lead us to believe yes um
but the data is much smaller so this
might also lead us to believe no and
basically what this paper showed is that
yes in general by training on the
specifically the Stanford natural
language inference or multi-genre
natural language interface inference
data set you can get much you can get
embedding set work well on a wide
variety of tasks and I think it was
pretty conclusive in that it worked
better for like 10 tasks and worked
towards for two tasks or something like
that of course you could do both if you
wanted to so they're not mutually
exclusive but I thought this was
interesting that we do we need to think
about the tasks that we're using so are
there any are there any questions so
there was actually kind of an
interesting demo of this set just went
online if you want to if you want to
play with this so let me see if I can
pull this up if I can pull this up now
so
so there's this this demo of from the
Ellen Institute for for AI and they have
textual entailment models and you can
you can put in two sentences where the
premise is a black dog chased a cat
through the doorway
and the cat is black I think was the
example that they had and you can run
this and it says this is entailed which
is not correct then you can also say
[Music]
black is red or the dog is black B black
dog and this will also be entailed so I
I think part of the problem is the the
training data part of the problem is I
think they were only using two Stanford
natural language inference and if they
use a multi Corp multi general one it
would be better but if people report
high numbers for this natural language
inference task you can you can still be
assured that there's still lots of work
to do here so if you search for this on
Twitter you can find lots of other nice
examples of people playing with this and
pointing out all the things that this is
not able to um okay so I will I will go
back to the slides
are there any questions about entailment
related stuff okay so now I will go on
to retrieval so I'm going to spend a
little bit more time on this and the
other ones just because it's more
involved and has has more moving parts
but the basic idea is that we have
something in a in a sense a big database
and given in the input sentence we find
we want to find something that matches
that in the database so for example we
might have text the text retrieval one
example of text to text retrieval would
be you put in a search query and it
gives you a document so then your input
is the search query that'll put us a
document another example would be if
anybody uses Gmail on your phone you put
in your email and it retrieves a good
response for your email like if it says
I would like to schedule a meeting with
you how about Thursday it will say sure
Thursday is great or I'm sorry I'm busy
on Wednesday or something like that so
sometimes sometimes it works sometimes
it doesn't
another very common one is text image
retrieval so you take in text describing
an image and you want to retrieve an
image and this is good if you want to do
like image search or something um and
you can do this for anything to anything
so anytime when you have a database of
results you want to search over you can
create a retrieval model um so the basic
idea is we have this database where we
want to do retrieval over it in some way
so the first thing we do is we encode
all of the things in the databases
vectors and then we save these somewhere
then we take our input we also encode
this as a vector and then we just find
the closest vector the vector with the
minimal distance over all of these so
it's a pretty well-formed procedure it's
easy to do we know how to encode
sentences as vectors of course you still
have the problem of whether you can
encode
full sentence in a single vector but
assuming that we can do something pretty
close to that um so then we want to we
want to train this model of course
because we have neural networks with
lots of parameters that we would like to
train and so given this let's say we
have our current model where we can
encode all of these as vectors and we
can encode our query as a vector from
this we can calculate some score we can
have a score where we input both of
these and calculate a score and let's
say the wrong example the one on the top
gets a higher score than the example on
the bottom so basically what we do here
is we assume that this is bad
and then we penalize it in some way
another very very common thing to do in
these models is to introduce a margin so
the margin is basically saying not only
is it we it's not good enough to be
better than the other bad examples we
have to be better by a certain margin so
we have to be better by at least one
point and in this case our good example
is only better by zero point two so we
want to penalize this um another problem
is that we might have a very very big
database so the database could be all
the web pages on the web for example if
we want to do web search or it could be
you know all of the email responses that
anybody has ever done to an email and if
that's the case we can't reasonably do
training over all of these examples so
we take a trick from basically the the
words of that cur language modeling book
where we only randomly sample a few of
these as negative examples and then we
use these as use only the randomly
sampled negative examples in the new
training over these so to put this in
equations we can calculate a loss
function that looks a lot like this so
we have our true input ex
our true output y and then we have s
which is a bunch of negatives negative
samples we calculate a hinge loss where
it's basically the maximum of 0 and then
1 plus the score of the bad example -
the score of the good example so if the
score of the good example is more than
one better than all the bad examples
this will be 0 otherwise otherwise will
incur a loss here so yeah that's the
correct input correct output negative
samples incorrect score plus one
incoming support this is it's a training
video uh yeah so um we assume that we
have some sort of training data so we
have like the paper that I cited on web
search basically they assume that if you
clicked through then it was a good
example if you didn't click through it
was a bad example for image caption
generation or email response generation
you can get an image and it's true
caption and then all the other ones are
negative in the example I give here yeah
in the example I have here I actually
have a translation retrieval example
where you have an input is a Japanese
sentence output is an English sentence
and we know which are which are
translations so then how do we measure
how do we measure the accuracy of these
we have recall an X where basically is
the correct answer in the top X choices
so recall it one is did you get the
number one the correct one is your
number one one recall it ten is did you
get the correct one in your top ten and
recall it ten will always be higher than
recall one you can also do mean average
precision which is area under the
precision recall curve this is nice
because you don't have to set an X and
it gives you a single number I think
both of these are used pretty widely so
I said I said let's try it out on
text-to-text and I'll do that in a
second but actually while I explained
the training code I would
this is included in the training code so
I should explain this first one way to
do this efficiently is to basically use
mini-batch training so if you remember
mini-batch training is where we take
multiple sentences and then process them
all at the same time so the way we do
this in retrieval is we sample a mini
batch we calculate representations for
all of the inputs and outputs and then
we use all of the other elements in the
mini batches negative samples so
basically the idea would be this S here
these are our negative samples these are
all the other sentences in the mini
batch when we calculate this hinge loss
so we sample sixteen sentences and then
step through one by one and this s would
be 15 15 sentences large it would be all
the other ones and this is good because
then we can process all the sentences
only once instead of having it linearly
increase okay so this one is the one
implementation example that I have here
so I will open it up and first a very
brief look at the training data the
training data looks like this it's just
Japanese sentences in English sentences
these are relatively short short
sentences and the idea is we have a
training set where we want to be able to
learn representations of Japanese or
English and then we have a development
set where we would like to be able to
retrieve those appropriately and so here
is the code so here we we have our
training files our development files and
then we have our kind of boilerplate
stuff this boilerplate basically what it
will do is it will read in pairs of
source and target sentences so we'll
once we're done reading we'll have this
big corpus of tuples
where the input couple is the source
sentence that output tuples couple is
the target sentence then we have all our
normal stuff we have the embedding size
where the embedding is the size of the
vector we look up for a word the the
hidden size is the size of the hidden
state in the endosteum in this case
we're using and then we have our batch
size which is the size of the the batch
that we're using to do calculation and
this will also be one - this will be the
number of negative samples that we use
in calculating their loss function we
then um so I am I am not using a siamese
architecture in this case so the siamese
architecture if you remember is the one
where we share the parameters for the
input and output in this case we're
looking up Japanese on one side and
English on the other side so I decided
not to do this if we were doing
something like dialogue response
generation where we want to take an
input in English and look up in that
retrieve an output in English then maybe
it would be better to share the
parameters between all of these so but
in this case I have separate parameters
for the source in the target then in our
training loop in our training loop we
basically loop through the let's see we
loop through the training data we find a
batch of data and we send the batch of
data to the to the loss calculate loss
function and what the calculate loss
function looks like is is like this we
renew the computation graph then for
each of the sentences and the batch we
basically we basically transduce that
sentence so that means step over all of
the elements in that sentence with our
by Allah that bi-directional STM and
calculate the representations for every
word of that
we take the the representation for the
last word here then we do the same thing
for the target so when once we've done
this we have a list of sentence
representations for the source in the
target is basically dinette expressions
here then what we do the next thing we
do is we concatenate these into a matrix
so for the source representations we
create a matrix of sort of the source so
this matrix
um this matrix is the embedding size by
the by the batch size we have this for
the source in the target
um then what we can do because we're
taking the dot product you can calculate
the dot product using a matrix
multiplication so that is that's this
thing here so what we're doing is we're
transposing the we're transposing the
source vector and as a result if we
transpose this this becomes a 16 by 128
vector in the multiplication of this
becomes a 16 by 16 vector or a 16 by 16
matrix sorry and this is the matrix of
the scores between each of the examples
and then we can take the hinge loss over
this this hinge loss function basically
will will allow you to take the hinge
loss over a particular dimension and in
this case what we're doing is we're
taking the hinge loss where the correct
answer is down the diagonal and the
reason why we can do this is because
basically the diagonal is the ones that
match and so this is a an efficient an
efficient way to calculate these
representations I I think you might have
gotten it if you didn't get it then that
I'm here then you can take another look
at the code and then I'm happy to answer
questions later so then the next thing
we need to do is we need to do actual
prediction or actual retrieval and so
the way we do retrieval is we do this by
indexing the corpus so the way we index
the corpus or we create representations
for every sentence in the corpus and the
way we do this is basically by by
stepping through all of the sentences in
the corpus - to calculate these just
doing this would not be very much fun so
I I get 16 sentences at a time or I did
batch size sentences
and the reason why I did this is because
if you use dinettes auto batching
functionality if you do sixteen at a
time it will become faster than if you
do just several at a time you could just
take this out of this inner for loop and
that would and that would make things
slower but it would give you exactly the
same result then the when we want to do
retrieval basically what we do is once
we've indexed our entire target corpus
we we can stack together all of the all
of the vectors into a matrix so is
basically we have you have 128 here and
then maybe 500 because 500 is the size
of our development set so 500 is the
size of the corpus over which we're
retrieving I mean we can use the numpy
stack function to do this then we
perform retrieval where we calculate the
ranks where we calculate the ranks of in
in ascending order or in descending
order of scores so the number one one
will be the one with the highest score
the number two one will be the one with
the second highest score and we can do
this with the numpy dot function and
then we can basically calculate the
ranks by using the none by argh stored
function so um we can then do we can
then do retrieval and we can calculate
the recall at one by adding one every
time we get it correct we can calculate
the recall at five by doing it every
time it the correct one is in the top
five ranks and the recall at ten by
doing one every time the it's in the top
ten legs
so um so that's kind of the overview of
the retrieval thing and because it might
be of interest to to see it run I will
I will let it run and hope it doesn't
crash and as always because I'm
recording a video here it will it will
take a little bit longer that did on my
previous computer but actually that's
taking a horrible this is totally
totally different than when I'm not
taking a video normally it's finished
one epic right now and it hasn't even
hasn't even finished five hundred
sentences so yeah it's ten times slower
because I'm taking a video let me see
okay um all I was going to do something
later where I I tried it with the auto
matching functionality and and checked
whether it was fast or not but I'll do
it now because otherwise it won't finish
but were there any questions about the
code or anything like that or about the
ideas it yeah
I do more training data so in each step
of the training process you use a single
mini batch which in this case was 16
examples it needs to be more than one it
could be just two where you have one one
positive example and one negative
example but it needs to be more than
more than one because we're using the
other sentences in the mini batch to to
calculate our negative examples it said
okay any other questions
um in the prediction time yes that's a
good question there was a typo in my in
my commands here so I realized it wasn't
doing all of it so the retrieval time in
reality what you would need to do is if
you are doing a web search task you
would need to search over all of the all
of the pages in the entire web when
people evaluate these models they
usually evaluate they usually evaluate
by only doing retrieval over the Deb set
so they're actually making their job a
little bit easier because if you make it
smaller then it's easier to retrieve but
usually it's standard practice to
basically to evaluate over the Deb set
okay so the question is could you apply
it to document retrieval and the answer
is yes you can and in fact the paper
that I cited is is doing that they're
doing search query to document retrieval
um there it becomes a very interesting
question of how you make your encoder
for the documents right so you might
want you might have to try a lot harder
to create a good encoder for documents
anyway so this was doing 600 sentences a
second when I wasn't recording video and
now it's doing 52 so I I'll leave this
running while I finish up the rest but
if there are no other questions about
this I will move on to the final part
um so um there's a few improvements that
you can do - this one is bi-directional
loss this is a pretty pretty standard
thing to do and basically all you do is
you calculate the hinge loss in both
directions so what I was doing here was
we had this big we basically had this
matrix and what we were doing was we
were comparing this value to all the
other values in the in the column and
trying to make sure that it was higher
than all the other values in the column
so the idea behind this is you also do
it for all the other values in the row
and you basically get a learning signal
in both in both directions which is
basically for you to calculate compared
to all of the other things you're doing
it's super cheap to calculate compared
to although there are things you're
doing and yeah and it trains a little
bit better so this is pretty pretty
standard yeah um also if you're if
you're not just evaluating on a dev set
of 500 examples but you actually want to
make this work for for large datasets um
the way you can do this is through
approximate nearest neighbor search um
so the idea is that you're going to want
to get some sort of you're going to want
to get some sort of basically a
representation vector representation for
this and you want to find the closest
vector representations and the way one
common way to do this is through
locality sensitive hashing there are
other ways but locality sensitive
hashing basically the idea is that you
calculate a you calculate a loss
function sorry a hash function that
takes in this this vector representation
and calculates a hash for it and the way
you calculate a hash is if you have a
point in space like this you basically
calculate
of vectors so this might be vector
number one this might be vector number
two and this might be vector number
three or plane number three and then you
find which side of the plane this point
design and it's on the good side of
plate number one the good side of plane
number two in the bad side of plane
number three
so essentially you get a hash function
of 1 1 0 which allows you to pair down
all of the other very similar things and
only search over a very small subset of
the whole database that you're using so
this is um this is one way to do a
fishing search um in terms of an example
of data there is image retrieval this is
a very widely used one there's also lots
of others but um the input is a text
file put as an image and for the images
you're already given image features
basically you can people have pre
computed image features using a large
convolutional neural network trained on
image death so if you want to do if you
want to do something like this the image
processing is done for you already
there's also 8000 images they each have
five captions that were crowd-sourced so
you can find different ways of saying
yeah so that is all that I have for
today if there are any questions
if not I will you can see that this is
trained and it's achieving a recall at
10 of 18 percent after the first
iteration so the model the model is
learning I think this this goes up to
about 40 or 50 or something like that
recall it 10 this is less interesting
than something like dialogue response
generation where you can retrieve
responses and actually we found
generating responses is better is better
if you have good training data but
actually dialogue response generation is
a really difficult task so something
like retrieval is a very strong baseline
that you can also try in addition to
generation if you're if you're thinking
about doing something like that so I
guess that's all I have for today so
thank you very much